from an early age i was encouraged by my
family
to study music i was given a lot of
positive reinforcement
to listen to music to dance to music
to sing the lyrics to songs that would
be playing on the radio
some of my earliest childhood memories
were singing and dancing with my family
a lot of joyous times a lot of
clapping smiling just a lot of happiness
that i could sense with the family that
my parents were happy to see me
dancing and singing that my older
brothers were also
finding it very cute right so
this was the start this was
the genesis of my interest in music
likewise i had a lot of positive
reinforcement for my older brothers
to play video games this was a big part
of my childhood
so unlike the kind of
glamorization or glorification
of the study of music that i saw this as
something
serious that this is something to
take with a kind of pride that
i'm studying music that i'm playing
music this is something that's
not so easy right um i even felt it was
more important to study music
and more of a challenge than to
participate in team sports
so i had a little bit of experience with
team sports and i chose
instead to spend my extracurricular time
and the classes that i chose in high
school
the electives that i chose were 100
music based they require an orchestra
and in addition to
studying and learning how to play the
instrument of the violin
i also learned guitar on my own and
played in bands with friends
and had competitions where i would play
music
whether it was keyboard guitar singing
this kind of thing
i would do with friends of mine so from
a young age
i really always thought that music was
something
that was a good use of your time that
was a good use of my time
and i didn't really question whether it
or not and by contrast
i always knew that video games were a
poor use of my time
i knew that they weren't going to equip
me with life skills
i wasn't that delusional that i thought
that if i played
super mario that this would somehow
build my
cognition that it would improve my
mental alacrity that it would
benefit me in some way with my future
but still i got a lot of positive
reinforcement
for it so it was something that i
continued to do into my early 20s
i have had to question how i spent my
time in my youth
i think a lot of people might be
very much emotionally attached to how
they spent their childhood
what their parents encouraged them to
pursue outside
of their studies outside of what you are
supposed to do
in terms of passing your classes and
going to
college after high school we have this
really strong
feeling that if anybody questions what i
was doing with my time that they're
me and they're not being very uh polite
right and i didn't have anybody that was
providing that input any time that i
would talk about
what i was doing in my extracurricular
time most of them
thought like oh well you'll do well i
never had people that were concerned
about the use of my time whether i was
using my intellectual abilities to
improve my life or make it so that i
would be more successful
once i got out of this highly structured
situation in high school
where everything is very scheduled you
have to
follow the rules and once you're out of
school once you even go to college
you have to be on your own you have to
have the kind of attitude
and drive and determination that you
you don't have to have these structures
placed on you in high school you have to
wake up and go to school
but once you're in college you don't
have the same kind of structure you
think oh
if my class isn't till 2 pm maybe i'll
sleep in until 1 pm like i'll
stay awake until 2 in the morning and
not have my class until 1 pm but like
really
no what you're learning in high school
is the kind of
responsibility that you need when you
leave i wish i would have had more
of this attitude that i was preparing
for
life i was preparing for my adulthood
once i graduated from high school that
now now that i've graduated
i'm an adult but instead i really feel
that what we've conditioned children
what we've conditioned adolescents and
teenagers
to do is to expect that
basically from 18 to 25 or 26
these are still part of an extended
adolescence
you have different expectations on you
and of course you're still expected to
follow the law and not break the law and
get into legal trouble and so on for
most people that's
not a problem that's not that's not the
issue the issue is
do you see yourself as an adult and if
you do
why are you still doing things that you
did in your childhood
parents from my perspective and what i
saw
i think a lot of parents of children who
studied music
who bought their children instruments
these are not
cheap you know compared to a soccer ball
if you buy your child to violin
if you buy your child a french horn you
know you expect that your child is going
to continue this
after high school and the way that music
is presented is that
this is still going to be meaningful in
your life after you graduate
maybe you can still be in a band after
high school maybe you can still
go to a community orchestra and
participate and perform
but really a huge percentage of students
who study
an orchestra or are part of choir in
high school
don't continue after this and i followed
this trend
i did orchestra for one year in college
and i decided i don't have time for this
i'm not able to practice enough
in order to perform well at the concerts
so i decided
i'm not going to continue this and i
didn't get into
a campus choir or anything like that and
really i have not studied music
i've barely picked up multiple
instruments since i graduated from high
school
by contrast i definitely continue
playing video games
you know you really like have to think
about your use of your time
i didn't have the kind of hard-nosed
parents that were
saying like never play video games and i
think that continued
after i graduated that i still thought
that it's okay to have these
childish pleasures this enjoyment of the
simple things in life because you can't
always
be productive you can't always be
thinking
about what you're doing with your life
you can't always be worrying and
consumed
like this is just going to take over all
of your
thoughts all of your feelings this worry
about your future you should spend your
time doing some other things to take
your mind off it right
but how much of your time are you going
to devote to taking your mind off of the
things
that you really should be spending your
time on and when does it
go from mindless entertainment taking
your
mind off of the difficult problems in
your life
to being just 100 procrastination
to being a bad habit to being something
that
is a detriment to what you're pursuing
in your life
and it takes your mind off the problems
and then it becomes the main problem in
your life
yeah that's right yeah so
what i wanted to say in this video is
the role of music in my life from an
early age
was that this is a positive part of my
life and this is always going to be a
part of who i am
when i was a child when i was an
adolescent and teenager i thought of
myself
as a musician i thought this is who i am
this is my natural talent some people
are naturally gifted at drawing
some people are naturally gifted toward
more mechanical
work i didn't think of it in terms of
this is what
the child has been encouraged to pursue
or i didn't think of it as
this is what i've been encouraged to do
and this is what i've spent my time on
not only was i spending time practicing
music not only was i playing the violin
not only was i
playing guitar not only was i singing in
choir and doing
all of the rehearsals all the tutoring
lessons
all of the additional things outside of
just you know practicing in the
orchestra with the other students
it really took over my life completely
and i wasn't doing other things with my
time
during those years and a lot of people i
think you don't want to think about
because the horrible reality is maybe
that if i hadn't been spending my time
playing music what else could i have
done and how else could i have
had some improvement in other areas of
my life this is really seen as an
unquestioned
positive and virtuous thing to do with
your time
and when i was a child when i was a
teenager i saw
i saw quite a lot on television about
how
the music education in downtown detroit
wasn't as good as the suburban areas and
this to me
seemed like such a tragedy that children
didn't have access
to the kind of music education that i
did there was a program called save the
music that was about
bringing instruments and donating
instruments to children
who were going to schools that didn't
have enough funding
to fund the education programs to have
the right teachers to have the right
instruments to have the right facilities
to allow children to have the
opportunity to learn
and perform on stage and to compete in
competitions but this to me
seemed like this is something that
everybody every child needs to have
access to
this is something that is going to
benefit them it's going to enrich their
lives and
improve their intelligence uh make them
just more well well-rounded people this
i really think
we need to examine maybe it's not the
case and
maybe for discussing my own history
and think about my own past maybe i
really would have benefited from doing
team sports in high school
or if i instead of quitting after one
week into a swim team
what if i had continued with swim team
maybe
my physique now and maybe i would just
have
more of this practice with building my
body
with building up muscles and the kind of
training
and dedication that comes with team
sports that comes with
swim team waking up early in the morning
hitting the pool
getting in there into this ice cold
water every morning
yeah that's that that builds character
that builds
a kind of determination a kind of coping
ability
that no matter what the circumstances
are in your life you're going to wake up
early
you're going to do some physical
exercise and this is going to be the
start of your morning there have been a
lot
of studies that show how much physical
exercise is good for not only your
physical health
your well-being but your mental
well-being as well
and i don't really buy the studies that
i read
about learning a musical instrument i
don't
really believe that playing a musical
instrument is going to
by default make you happier i don't by
default think it's going to make you
smarter i've seen news headlines before
about this
and i remember my parents saying that
this will make me more intelligent
basically like if i play music if i work
really hard
all those hours that i was learning
vivaldi all those
times that i was practicing this mozart
piece and
it really calls into question classical
music classical music is not only seen
as
elevating your social status it's also
seen as elevating your
intelligence as making you a more
refined person
in this way i thought that learning how
to play vivaldi
and learning this bach concerto would
make me a more sophisticated and refined
person
it didn't work
well that's that's what you say uh you
know compared to
look it depends on what standards you
have for yourself
what standards do you want to hold
yourself to a phrase that i've heard is
the bigotry of low expectations and
i think that i myself was imposing
pretty low standards for myself i had
low expectations
of what i could accomplish and what i
could do with my life
and i didn't grow up in the most
sophisticated area of the world
growing up in the detroit area the kind
of person that i saw
as famous that i saw as important
that i saw as making changes or at least
being relevant
were all musicians partly because of the
history of
the detroit area so when i was growing
up eminem was huge i mean he was
massively popular
but in the house we didn't really listen
to eminem uh we listened to motown you
know my parents were old and
they listened to smokey robinson they
listened to diana ross and the supremes
you know like
these were tops yeah that's right yeah
stevie wonder
a lot of different music was in the
household what i saw glamorized and what
i saw glorified from the historical
figures
from the detroit area were motown
singers i thought that to make a
difference in the world to be an
important person
it made sense to be a musician your
opinion mattered if you were a musician
and you were famous you were on the news
all the time
yeah i was unaware of the political
situation
in detroit i knew that it was not good
but i
i heard on the news that kwame
kilpatrick was this
horribly corrupt politician and this
you know who who else did we have to
take as our hero
who else did we have to see and emulate
their success when people praised kwame
and kilpatrick
they called him the hip-hop mayor the
hip hop
praise they could give him was saying
that he was like a rock star that he was
like a musician
that's right that he was a politician
people cared about the way they care
about
a rapper so that it really shows that
the main icons the main people would be
looked up to
were musicians that's right so growing
up i really
thought that music was an unquestioned
good i saw it as something virtuous i
thought it was a good use of my time
and that eventually maybe it would be a
part of
my adulthood maybe it would be a part of
becoming an important person
in the world that if i had the skills
that i developed
in choir that i developed in performing
for an audience
and singing in front of a group of 300
people
in my mind i thought that maybe that
would translate to other aspects of my
life
and i've had to come to the conclusion
that it really doesn't that
performing something that you practice
a thousand times and perform for an
audience
isn't necessarily going to benefit you
in life
and that maybe it's so specific that
learning this mozart mass
is not going to be relevant in your life
once you're older and i've had to
reflect
that all of those hours that i put into
practicing music that i
that i put into studying music and
learning how to play an instrument
might have been a waste of my time for
me it was fairly easy to come to terms
with the fact that
playing video games was a pure waste of
my time
but it's been harder to come to terms
with the fact that all the hours that i
spent playing music and performing
might have been a complete waste of my
time and
that i've had to question why it was
that i was given all this positive
reinforcement
why is it that for a young girl
that they're encouraged to perform in
this way
of just performing what they've
rehearsed a thousand times
this music that they've learned i've had
to even come to terms with the fact that
it hasn't even translated into the
my ability to compose music i've never
been able to
really compose music or create music
which you know
if i were going to make it a career if i
had been thinking of that
i didn't learn any of the skills for
actually learning how to make my own
music
all i learned was this rote memorization
and for the most part i think that
probably has not benefited
me in my adult life fundamentally what
does it mean
for a girl to become a woman
fundamentally how can we
help a child transform into an adult a
boy turn into a man
the answer can't be memorizing music for
hours and hours
rehearsing the music and performing in
front of a crowd
a roadway in detroit has been renamed in
honor of motown legend stevie wonder
the singer was joined by detroit's mayor
and other motown alumni for the
unveiling of stevie wonder avenue the
ceremony took place
at the corner of milwaukee and woodward
avenues
stevie wonder avenue
i want all of us to walk down the street
that leads us to a place
of humanity of equality
of fairness and respect
wonder moved to detroit from saginaw
when he was a child
and was signed by motown at the age of
[Music]
11.